Namo Buddha Shakyamuni.
Dear fellow practitioners, please
join hands and recite the
Buddha's name so that we may participate in the regular Dharma sharing session
of the Golden Nation's Six Harmonious Practices. Namo Buddha Shakyamuni. Namo
Buddha Shakyamuni.
[Music]
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni.
Dear fellow practitioners, karma
is something that we Buddhists need to
understand so that when we practice the Dharma in our
lay lives, we can
avoid the karmic consequences of
our actions. King
Minanda helped us Buddhists
a great deal in clarifying doubts about things that
we Buddhists didn't understand.
We Buddhists didn't know how
to ask, so King Minanda
asked Venerable Rajagriha to
help us understand the
actions that lead to painful karmic consequences
that we cannot comprehend.
Today, Venerable Rajagriha answers King
Minanda on a matter...  Why is it that
intelligent people who commit great evil deeds receive
small karmic retribution, while
foolish people who commit
small crimes receive very heavy retribution?
This raises questions: Does karma favor the
intelligent and hate the foolish?
In this world, it's true that intelligent people are always
loved, while foolish people, especially those who commit
evil deeds, receive little
love and support. But
today, in the context of karma,
this is happening: intelligent people who commit great evil deeds receive small karmic
retribution, while foolish people who commit
small evil deeds receive
great karmic retribution. If this were up to
us, we wouldn't believe it,
and we might
not be able to find an explanation
to satisfy us. Therefore,
dear Buddhist followers,
listen to the very detailed lecture by Venerable
Thich Chuc Thai Minh in lecture 79, which describes how intelligent people
commit small karmic offenses and foolish people
commit large karmic offenses. (Yen reads the scriptures)  "
Let me tell you, esteemed Dharma friends, about the question
King Minanda asked the Venerable One: 'The law of cause and
effect is difficult to understand comprehensively. But suppose
a wise person and a foolish person both commit evil,
who will suffer more karmic retribution? The
foolish person will be punished more severely.' The Venerable One
replied, 'Your Majesty,' King Minanda
said, 'If that's the case, it's different from the laws of
the world. In my kingdom, I am
the enforcer of the law. If a learned, knowledgeable person who breaks the law commits a crime, I will impose a very severe punishment. Conversely, if a simple, uneducated, foolish person commits a crime, I will prescribe a very light punishment.' The Venerable One said, 'Of course, Buddhist
law is different from worldly
law.' The King said, 'Please give me an
example, Venerable One.' The Venerable One replied, '
If
the King forces each person to grab the hot iron and
lift it up, what will happen? The
wise person will quickly reach out, grab it, lift it up,
and then quickly drop it. They
will be burned, but only slightly. The
foolish person, not knowing how to hold on tightly, will be severely
burned. Similarly, a foolish person commits
evil without knowing it is evil, sinking deeper into
evil.'  The karmic retribution will be heavy, while a wise person, even knowing
what is evil and committing it, finds ways
to lessen the severity of that evil.
Therefore, the karmic retribution will be less severe. Your Majesty, the
King has answered clearly. Here,
we must consider what the Buddha called a
wise person and
what he called a foolish person
before becoming a Buddha. Our Buddha
was a prince; he was very
intelligent, among the youngest. King Suddhodana
chose many excellent teachers for him,
but after only a
short time, sometimes 7 days, sometimes a
month, those wise people
had nothing more to teach
Prince Siddhartha, and Prince
Siddhartha could then teach those
worldly teachers. The Buddha had wisdom
before he became a Buddha, but
he was not satisfied, so he went to practice asceticism
to attain enlightenment, and that's how he developed
wisdom. Therefore, what the Buddha meant by "
foolish" is someone who has not yet attained
wisdom, or someone who does not yet understand the
cause of suffering.
How to eliminate suffering in this world?
Well, that's how it is. Those who don't know
this, according to Buddhist scriptures, are said to
be foolish, meaning foolish compared to the wisdom of
liberation, not simply
foolish in this world. It's
not that foolish compared to
worldly wisdom. Therefore, in Buddhism, we
often speak of clear wisdom.
This wisdom guides us, enabling
us to do things that bring
about karmic consequences and blessings.
Even if someone
is recognized as wise in this world, if
that wisdom still leads them to do things that bring about
suffering, then
in Buddhism, that person is still called
foolish. They are not a person with the wisdom of
liberation, not a person with the
wisdom to bring happiness
according to karma. They may be a person with
worldly wisdom, only able to create
material things in the
present to serve themselves and
sentient beings with the five desires, but
they still have to bear the consequences of their actions.
For example, Yen Chi.  For example, let's say
worldly intelligence is used to invent
poisons to harm living beings or
atomic bombs. It's true that
only truly intelligent people in this world
can think and
create atomic bombs. But
atomic bombs are meant to kill
all living beings, to kill humans.
Therefore, worldly intelligence brings
about endless suffering and karmic consequences for that person.
That's why the Buddha said that it's not yet
liberating intelligence; it still brings
suffering to oneself and to
others. So, any worldly intelligence
that only benefits
living beings is also
called human intelligence,
not yet truly wise. But
that intelligence also arises from a good and virtuous heart. Conversely, any
intelligence that provides knowledge that harms living beings
arises from an unwholesome heart, a mind that
knows evil, a mind that is wicked. So,
returning to the answer
of Venerable Nāgasena...  A wise person
is someone who relies on the wisdom of
the Buddha, using the Buddha's knowledge as
their guide. For example, a Buddhist disciple who takes refuge in the Buddha and observes the five precepts—
not killing, not
stealing, not
lying, not committing adultery, and not being drunk or addicted—
if this disciple
has a job in the world and is
obligated to eat and drink with friends
and colleagues at annual gatherings,
which they cannot refuse because
they are still lay people, worldly people, they
must eat fresh animals.
These animals, meaning they take the lives
of living beings to sustain
themselves, because they work together in the
same organization, so they cannot avoid
this. The mind of someone who
understands the Buddha's teachings and relies on the
Buddha's wisdom is different from the mind of someone who does not
know about karma and has not accessed the
Buddha's wisdom to
absorb the Buddha's teachings. At that same
table, the wise person, who understands karma,
may eat, but they do not take pleasure in
killing; they do not enjoy the
food that takes lives.
These beings eat and maintain the mindset that
they must engage in such activities because their lives are bound by karmic
ties, so
they cannot yet give up this practice. If
they give up, they will have no
work,
no income, and no income to
provide
for their families. With that mindset,
they will eventually realize their mistake, repent, and
avoid words like "It's delicious,
let's kill that animal to make it easier." They will
not create further negative thoughts or words,
and the matter will
stop there. That is, they abandon
this evil act, but they stop there. They go
home, realize their mistake, repent, and
vow to do good deeds. They hope
that they will not continue to be drawn to the karmic consequences of
killing,
and that they may be able to
move on to other things, in
other places, without having to happily participate
in such acts of killing. That is the
wisdom of karma. But what about the
ignorant?  Why is it that a foolish person, meaning
someone who doesn't yet understand the wisdom of cause and effect,
is like a Buddhist disciple who relies on the
liberating wisdom of the Buddha, understanding
cause and effect? ​​Therefore,
a person with such wisdom, even when engaging in evil deeds, sharing a meal and suffering the consequences of killing, will experience less severe karmic retribution.
A foolish person, lacking the wisdom of
cause and effect and not relying on the
Buddha to practice this wisdom,
will suffer heavier consequences.
Thus, we see that a wise
person is truly more beneficial because they
understand the workings
of cause and effect. Therefore, we begin to
gradually master cause and effect. We
master cause and effect, we ourselves know
how to sow good seeds and are not
led astray by
ignorance into doing evil. In essence, why do we say we master
cause and effect? ​​A person who hasn't
mastered cause and effect is still
following their old karma, for example,
feelings of
desire, taste, and
quantity—that is, the
deliciousness of things.  A person who is greedy for delicious, sweet, fatty, and nutritious food, and
wants to eat until their stomach is full, is
controlled by that very desire without understanding the law of
cause and effect. This is called being
controlled by negative karma without knowing it; it means they
don't understand karma and can't
control it. On the other hand, a person who understands
a little about karma usually
knows how to control it. That is, they
know what they are sowing and what they will reap. It's
like going into
a forest where the land isn't
yours yet; you don't control it. Wild
grass and weeds
grow everywhere, and you don't know what kind of tree it is.
But a
person who has mastered the land can clear the
weeds and sow
whatever seeds
they want. From that sowing, they know
what kind of fruit or
tree will grow, and how they will
receive from that tree. Therefore, a person who
understands karma...  Mastering karma is
like someone who already owns a piece of
land, that land belongs to them, it's
their property, and they can freely
sow seeds and cultivate on it. Someone who
doesn't understand karma, however,
doesn't truly own that land, and
they can't use it.
They are directly affected by the dangers it brings; they
might encounter thorny
bushes, poisonous plants, or all sorts of
wild animals that thrive there,
and they are swept away by the
suffering it causes. For example, if they
encounter an animal on that land that
chases them, they just run away—
completely passive. So,
as compassionate Buddhists,
we should diligently listen to and study the
Buddha's teachings to understand karma more deeply,
and to understand more deeply what
constitutes good and evil deeds. Because
we don't yet possess wisdom;
that wisdom doesn't belong to us, but
to the Buddha. We should only learn
the knowledge that the Buddha teaches
us.  We are applying these teachings in
practice, but this wisdom is
not yet ours. We cannot conceive of it ourselves,
nor can we think of it spontaneously;
it cannot arise spontaneously. Therefore,
we must diligently practice the
Buddha's teachings to benefit from them. It's
like a
child who hasn't yet earned
money to buy rice, cook meals,
and eat on their own. The child just needs to
diligently recognize this bowl of rice given by their mother, diligently
scoop, chew, and
eat it, and they will be full. We, with the
knowledge and wisdom of the Buddha,
are children who are benefiting
from his wisdom. That's it.
The Buddha said: "Do this,
think, speak, and do good. Do not kill, do not steal,
do not lie, do not commit adultery,
do not get drunk or addicted." Then you
will be happy. Similarly, when
we eat, we should think, speak, and
do things that are not related to killing
ourselves, encouraging others to kill, stealing ourselves, encouraging others to steal, or lying ourselves, encouraging
others to lie.  We
ourselves engage in immoral acts, incite others to engage in immoral acts, and we
ourselves become intoxicated and addicted, and then incite
others to become intoxicated and addicted. We
recognize this and simply
follow the Buddha's teachings. It brings great happiness. The
important thing is to listen to
and apply many of the Buddha's
teachings, and we will become well-fed, comfortable, and peaceful children.
Therefore, we only need to do one thing:
acknowledge, "I am a child of the
Buddha, I am a good child of the Buddha." We should follow whatever the
Buddha says. That's all; we don't need to strive or invent anything more. The Buddha has already told us everything;
we just need to practice. So, if we are
still bound by negative karmic connections,
we can still find ways to overcome those small evil deeds
and escape them. The
karmic consequences will be much lighter.
If the karmic consequences are severe, we will
suffer greatly. Wishing you all the best.  Dear fellow practitioners, be
diligent in studying the Dharma, be diligent in
practicing the Buddha's teachings. Namo Buddha
Shakyamuni. Let us, dear fellow practitioners,
dedicate the merit of
this merit
to all
disciples and sentient beings so that they may all
choose to attain Buddhahood.
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music] [
Applause]
[Music]